## Quality of Life (QoL) scripts
Some basic scripts to ease data analysis, analysis/plotting templates, and quick look up requests

#### FDR_function.R
R script providing a robust function for FDR correction. Providing a vector of p-values and a desired FDR cut-off returns a data.frame with p-values, q-values, and FDR adjustment boolean.

#### TsTv_script.R
R script for plotting Transition/Transversion ratios against QUAL. Data input this is output from VCFtools `--TsTv-by-qual` function.

#### exon_schematic_plotting.R
Generate gene structure (exon-intro) schematic diagrams in R from a BED4 file. Non-dynamic (editing required).

#### file_copy.sh	
Bash script for mass copying files - Original test scripts - Depreciated

#### gene_search_BASS.sh
Bash script to pull variants in specific gene loci from "BASS" annotated tsv files. Utilises a folder location of BASS scoring files and a HUGO gene symbol. Collapses search results into a single report.

#### helpful_Rplots.R
Some examples of helpful R scripts for making plots using randomly generated data. 

#### max_RAM_use.sh
Bash script to monitor a process and report back the maximum total RAM usage while running. Requires access to `ps aux` and a unique search term or PID for the process. Should be run with `nohup` and `&` if expected to continue after session ends. 

#### oncogen_plot.R
Custom recapitualtion and implementation of the Oncogene plots seen on cBioPortal etc. Includes subtype, SIFT, PolyPhen and Mutation count annotation. Uses variant_filtering_results.tsv as generated by the `variant_filtering` scripts in this repository.

#### plink_script.sh
Basic script containing the processing steps to performed IBD analysis to determine relatedness. Requires a multi-sample, uncompressed VCF and a value at which to filter the relatedness (use default 0.05 if unsure).

#### progress_bar.sh
Bash script implementation of a for/while loop progress bar. For iterative bash processes, the functional loop code can be inserted within the progress_bar code and sends an informative 1-100% progress bar to stdout.

#### read_count.sh
Minor bash script to calculate BAM file read counts for a given region or total. Manual editing of commented lines is required to switch between.

#### region_coverage.R
R script to visualise DepthOfCoverage outputs from GATK DepthOfCoverage for a specified region. Also includes an implementation of the exon_schematic_plotting.R script, though requires significant reimplementation.

#### resource_monitor.sh
A Bash script which acts as a more verbose version of max_RAM_use.sh. Generates a log file report of a specific process' resoruces usage (CPU, vRAM, rRAM, UPTIME, USER). Should be run with `nohup` and `&` if expected to continue after session ends. 

#### sample_day_selector.R
Niche R script designed to assigned indepenet variables to inconstiently derived time point data. Script finds closest matching time points between samples and assigns them to a independent variable or ommits them as NA until the next time point occurs to standardise time points across all samples.

#### sex_calc.sh
Bash script for performing rudamentary on-the-fly genetic sex calculations from targeted, WES, and WGS sequencing BAMS. Calculations are performed as a ratio of Read coverage between ChrX and ChrY with no other corrections. An arbitary ambiguity range was implemented to prevent misclassification of borderline cases. Requires an input folder of BAMs and access to `samtools`.

#### trycatch_adv.R - Unknown source author
An R function to improve trycatch() implementation. Fucntion is used in SKAT association testing to report and filter genes which failed statistical testing with accurate warning and errors retained.

#### useful_cmds.txt
A text file containing miscellaneous commands and one-liners which are useful for general day-to-day (bio)informatics.

#### variant_counter.sh
Bash script to perform raw variant (HET/Non-ref HOM) counts from a multi-sample VCF based on coordinate position or rsID. Input is a search term (rsID or single base coordinate) and a VCF. Returns output to stdout. 
